\"
\"
\"
\"
\"
\"
\"
.Dd 07 July 2007
.Os
.Dt AVATARDT 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm avatardt
.Nd "train and test decision trees"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
--format=NAME
--train
--test
format-specific-arguments
.Op tree-options
.Op ensemble-options
.Op output-options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
operates on exodus\- or avatar\-format data to train and test decision trees.
.Sh ARGUMENTS AND OPTIONS
.Ss REQUIRED ARGUMENTS
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "--concatenate" -compact
.It Fl o Ar format-type
.It Fl -format Ar format-type
.Ar format-type
is either
.Ar exodus
or
.Ar avatar .
See the
.Sx FORMATS
section for details. The default is
.Ar exodus
.It Fl -train
Build the decision trees.
.It Fl -test
Run testing data through the decision trees.
.El
.Pp
NOTE: The
.Fl -train
and
.Fl -test
options may be given together or separately.
.Pp
NOTE: See the
.Sx FILENAMES
section for file naming conventions.
.Pp
.so man1/general_opts
.Pp
.so man1/exodus_args
.It Fl -train-times Ar range
Use the one-based timesteps given in
.Ar range
for training.
.Ar Range
is a comma and dash separated list of integers such as "1-4,6" or "5,7-10,12,14,20-22"
.It Fl -test-times Ar range
Use the one-based timesteps given in
.Ar range
for training or testing.
.Ar Range
is a comma and dash separated list of integers such as "1-4,6" or "5,7-10,12,14,20-22"
.El
.Pp
.so man1/avatar_args
.Pp
.so man1/avatar_opts
.Pp
.so man1/tree_opts
.Pp
.so man1/ensemble_options
.Pp
.Ss ENSEMBLE COMBINATION OPTIONS
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "--concatenate" -compact
.It Fl -do-mmv
Do margin majority voting
.It Fl -do-emv
Do ensemble majority voting
.It Fl -do-memv
Do margin ensemble majority voting
.It Fl -do-pmv
Do probability majority voting
.It Fl -do-spmv
Do scaled probability majority voting
.El
.Pp
.so man1/skew
.Pp
.so man1/alt_filenames
.Pp
.so man1/output_options
.Pp
.so man1/misc_options
.Pp
.so man1/formats
.Pp
.so man1/filenames
.Pp
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Pp
.Dl avatardt -o avatar -f autos --truth-column=26 --train --test --output-confusion-matrix --output-accuracies
.Pp
Will build a single tree by training on the data in "autos.data" using column 26 as the
true class. The data in "autos.test" will be used for testing and voted/average accuracies and
the confusion matrix will be printed on stdout.
.Pp
.Dl avatardt -o avatar -f autos --truth-column=26 --train --test --output-confusion-matrix -B
.Pp
Will do the same as the example above except the trees will be built using 100% bags.
.Pp
.Dl avatardt -o exodus -d can.ex2 -P partitions -C can.classes --test-times 16 --do-mmv --output-confusion-matrix
.Pp
Will test using the data in "can.ex2" at timestep 16. The ensemble files corresponding to the
exodus files in the file "partitions" will be mass majority voted and voted accuracy and the
confusion matrix will be printed on stdout.
.Sh FILES
.Pp
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Pp
.Xr avatarmpi 1,
.Xr crossvalfc 1
.Pp
.Sh HISTORY
.Pp
