.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Dd 07 July 2007
.Os
.Dt CROSSVALFC 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm crossvalfc
.Nd "train and test decision trees using cross validation"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl -format Ar format-type
.Fl -folds Ar int
|
.Fl -5x2
format-specific-arguments
.Op tree-options
.Op ensemble-options
.Op output-options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
operates on exodus\- or avatar\-format data to train and test decision trees.
.Sh ARGUMENTS AND OPTIONS
.Ss REQUIRED ARGUMENTS
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "--concatenate" -compact
.It Fl o Ar format-type
.It Fl -format Ar format-type
.Ar format-type
is either
.Ar exodus
or
.Ar avatar .
See the
.Sx FORMATS
section for details. The default is
.Ar exodus
.It Fl N Ar int
.It Fl -folds Ar int
Perform N-fold cross validation using
.Ar int
folds.
.It Fl X
.It Fl -5x2
Perform 5x2 cross validation
.It Fl -loov
Perform leave-one-out-validation. This is N-fold cross validation with the number of
folds set to the number of examples.
.El
.Pp
NOTE: Exactly one of
.Fl -folds
and
.Fl -5x2
and
.Fl -loov
may be specified.
.Pp
.so man1/exodus_args
.It Fl -train-times Ar range
Use the one-based timesteps given in
.Ar range
for training.
.Ar Range
is a comma and dash separated list of integers such as "1-4,6" or "5,7-10,12,14,20-22"
.El
.Pp
.so man1/avatar_args
.Pp
.so man1/avatar_opts
.Pp
.so man1/tree_opts
.Pp
.so man1/ensemble_options
.Pp
.so man1/alt_filenames
.Pp
.so man1/skew
.Pp
.so man1/output_options
.Pp
.so man1/misc_options
.Pp
.so man1/formats
.Pp
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Pp
.Dl ../../../../crossvalfc -d can.ex2 -C can.classes -N 5 --train-times 20 -n 10 --bagging --output-confusion-matrix
.Pp
Will run 5-fold cross validation and build 10 trees for each fold using data from timestep 20
in the exodus file can.ex2. The trees are built using 100% bagging. Voted/average accuracies
and the confusion matrix are printed on stdout.
.Pp
.Sh FILES
.Pp
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Pp
.Xr avatarmpi 1 ,
.Xr crossvalfc 1 ,
.Pp
.Sh HISTORY
.Pp
