\"
\"
\"
\"
\"
\"
\"
.Dd 03 October 2007
.Os
.Dt DATA_INSPECTOR 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm data_inspector
.Nd "check avatar format data files and generate names files"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
(
--file-stem=BASENAME
|
--data-file=FILENAME )
.Op options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
will check the consistency of a data and names file pair.
It can also generate a "best-guess" names file for an existing data file.
.Sh ARGUMENTS AND OPTIONS
.Ss REQUIRED ARGUMENTS
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "--concatenate" -compact
.It Fl d Ar file
.It Fl -data-file Ar file
Use
.Ar file
as the data file.
.It Fl n Ar file
.It Fl -names-file Ar file
Use
.Ar file
as the names file.
.It Fl f Ar string
.It Fl -file-stem Ar string
Use
.Ar string
as the base filename. The data file will be
.Ar basename.data
and the names file will be
.Ar basename.names .
.It Fl w
.It Fl -write-names-file
Writes the "best-guess" names file for the data file specified with the
.Fl -file-stem
or
.Fl -data-file option .
Do not specify the
.Fl -names-file
option with
.Fl --write-names-file .
.It Fl t Ar int
.It Fl -discrete-threshold Ar int
When writing the "best-guess" names file, this option controls whether an
attribute is considered
.Ar discrete
or
.Ar continuous .
The default is 10. See the
.Sx ATTRIBUTE-TYPE
section for details on how
.Nm
determines the attribute types.
.It Fl c Ar int
.It Fl -truth-column Ar int
Specifies the one-based column index containing the class.
If not specified, defaults to the last column.
.It Fl p
.It Fl -print-metadata
Prints a summary of the 
.Ar names
file. This is on by default.
.It Fl -nop
.It Fl --noprint-metadata
Turn off the printing of the metadata summary.
.El
.Pp
.Sh ATTRUBUTE-TYPES
.Pp
When writing the "best-guess" names file, the following attribute types are used:
.Pp
.Ar continous
attributes have only numbers as valid values and the number of unique values is greater than the
argument to the
.Fl -discrete-threshold
option.
.Pp
.Ar discrete
attributes have either only strings as valid values or only numbers and the number of unique
values is less than or equal to the argument to the
.Fl -discrete-threshold
option. Note that any number of string-only values is still considered discrete no matter
what the discrete threhold is.
.Pp
.Ar mixed
attributes have both strings and numbers as valid values and the number of unique values which
are numbers is greater than the discrete threshold. 
.Ar mixed
attributes are written as 
.Ar continuous
attributes in the names file.
Only the string values are printed in the metadata summary.
.Pp
.Sh FORMAT-ERRORS
The following conditions are checked by
.Nm
and errors are reported even when printing of the metadata has been turned off.
.Pp
.Ar correct number of attributes :
The first line of the data file defines the number of attributes. The number of
attributes in each subsequent line is counted to make sure it is the same as the first.
.Pp
.Ar valid class value :
The class value is checked against the list of valid values in the names file.
.Pp
.Ar missing class list :
The names file must have a list of valid values in the class definition line.
.Pp
.Ar attribute labels :
If the data file contains a 
.Ar #labels
line, the attribute and class labels must match the labels in the names file.
.Pp
.Ar valid discrete attribute values :
Discrete attributes must have a value that is in the list of valid values in the names file.
.Pp
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Pp
.Dl data_inspector -d hcars-0911.data -w
.Pp
Will read "hcars-0911.data" and generate "hcars-0911.names" using a discrete threshold of 10
and assuming the class values are given in the last column.
.Pp
.Dl data_inspector -t 20 -d hcars-0911.data -w -c 1
.Pp
Will read "hcars-0911.data" and generate "hcars-0911.names" using a discrete threshold of 20
and assuming the class values are given in the first column.
.Pp
.Dl data_inspector -d hcars-0911.data -n hcars-0911.names
.Pp
Will verify the data with the given names file and print a summary of errors and a metadata summary.
.Sh FILES
.Pp
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Pp
.Xr avatardt 1,
.Xr avatarmpi 1,
.Xr crossvalfc 1
.Pp
.Sh HISTORY
.Pp
