\"
\"
\"
\"
\"
\"
\"
.Dd 07 July 2007
.Os
.Dt DIVERSITY 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm diversity
.Nd "compute diversity statistics for an ensemble"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
--format=NAME
format-specific-arguments
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
operates on exodus\- or avatar\-format data and an ensemble file to compute
diversity statistics.
.Pp
The compute statistics are:
.Bl -tag -width "--concatenate" -compact
.It 1) Average Dietterich Kappa
.It 2) Pair-wise Q Statistic
.It 3) Inter-rater agreement function (Kappa)
.It 4) Percentage correct diversity measure (PDCM)
.El
.Pp
In addition, a plot file can be generated listing the Dietterich Kappa and
average error rate for each pair of classifiers.
.Sh ARGUMENTS AND OPTIONS
.Ss REQUIRED ARGUMENTS
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "--concatenate" -compact
.It Fl o Ar format-type
.It Fl -format Ar format-type
.Ar format-type
is either
.Ar exodus
or
.Ar avatar .
See the
.Sx FORMATS
section for details. The default is
.Ar exodus
.El
.Pp
NOTE: See the
.Sx FILENAMES
section for file naming conventions.
.Pp
.so man1/exodus_args
.El
.Pp
.so man1/avatar_args
.Pp
.so man1/avatar_opts
.Pp
.Ss ALTERNATE FILENAMES
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "--concatenate" -compact
.It Fl -test-file= Ar file
For
.Ar avatar
data, override the default filename for testing data.
.It Fl -namesfile= Ar file
For
.Ar avatar
data, override the default filename for metadata (the
.Ar names
file.
.It Fl -trees-file= Ar file
Override the default filename for the ensemble of trees.
.El
.Pp
.so man1/formats
.Pp
.Sh FILENAMES
.Pp
For
.Ar exodus
format data, if the value of the
.Fl -datafile
argument is
.Ar foo.ex2
then the testing data is taken from
.Ar foo.ex2
and the ensemble is read from
.Ar foo.trees .
.Pp
For
.Ar avatar
format data, if the value of the
.Fl -filestem
argument is
.Ar bar
then
.Ar bar.names
is used for the class and attribute definition file,
.Ar bar.test
is used for the testing data.
The ensemble is read from
.Ar bar.trees .
.Pp
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Pp
.Dl diversity -o avatar -f autos --truth-column=3 --exclude=1-2
.Pp
Will compute the diversity statistics from the ensemble "autos.trees" using the data in
"autos.test". The truth column is the third column and the first two columns are ignored.
.Pp
.Dl diversity -o avatar -f autos --truth-column=26 --output-kappa-plot-data
.Pp
Will do the same as the example above plus it will print a plot file containing four columns:
.Bl -tag -width "--concatenate" -compact
.It 1) classifier 1 index
.It 2) classifier 2 index
.It 3) Kappa value for classifiers 1 and 2
.It 4) average accuracy for classifiers 1 and 2
.El
.Pp
.Dl avatardt -o exodus -d can.ex2 -C can.classes --test-times=20-24
.Pp
Will compute the diversity statistics from the ensemble file "can.trees" using the data
in "can.ex2" for timesteps 20-24.
.Sh FILES
.Pp
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Pp
.Xr avatardt 1,
.Xr crossvalfc 1
.Pp
.Sh HISTORY
.Pp
