\"
\"
\"
\"
\"
\"
\"
.Dd 07 July 2007
.Os
.Dt PROXIMITY 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm proximity
.Nd "compute outlier measure and proximity for an ensemble of trees"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
--format=NAME
format-specific-arguments
[options]
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
operates on exodus\- or avatar\-format data and an ensemble file to compute
compute outlier measures and proximity values.
.Pp
Generates an output file containing the outlier measure for each data sample.
.Pp
If the --sort option is specified, also computes the proximity from the
sample number specified by the --sort option (or the first sample if not
specified). For avatar-format data, the data is sorted by proximity to the
specified sample.
.Sh ARGUMENTS AND OPTIONS
.Ss REQUIRED ARGUMENTS
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "--concatenate" -compact
.It Fl o Ar format-type
.It Fl -format Ar format-type
.Ar format-type
is either
.Ar exodus
or
.Ar avatar .
See the
.Sx FORMATS
section for details. The default is
.Ar exodus
.El
.Pp
NOTE: See the
.Sx FILENAMES
section for file naming conventions.
.Pp
.Ss OPTIONAL ARGUMENTS
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "--concatenate" -compact
.It Fl -standard-deviation
Use the standard deviation for standardizing the outlier measure. This is the default
.It Fl -absolute-deviation
Use the absolute deviation for standardizing the outlier measure.
.It Fl -sort=INT
Compute the proximity from the sample number specified by INT and sort the
output file based on proximity.
.It Fl -load-matrix
The proximity matrix is computationally expensive and so is written to disk
after it is computed. To use this stored matrix instead of computing it,
specify this option.
.It Fl -no-save-matrix
Do not write the proximity matrix to disk.
.It Fl -print-proximity-progress
Prints the percent complete as the proximity matrix is computed.
.El
.Pp
.so man1/exodus_args
.El
.Pp
.so man1/avatar_args
.Pp
.so man1/avatar_opts
.Pp
.Ss ALTERNATE FILENAMES
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "--concatenate" -compact
.It Fl -test-file= Ar file
For
.Ar avatar
data, override the default filename for testing data.
.It Fl -namesfile= Ar file
For
.Ar avatar
data, override the default filename for metadata (the
.Ar names
file.
.It Fl -trees-file= Ar file
Override the default filename for the ensemble of trees.
.It Fl -prox-sorted-file= Ar file
Override the default filename for the output.
.It Fl -prox-matrix-file= Ar file
Override the the default filename for the proximity matrix stored to disk.
.El
.Pp
.so man1/formats
.Pp
.Sh FILENAMES
.Pp
For
.Ar exodus
format data, if the value of the
.Fl -datafile
argument is
.Ar foo.ex2
then the testing data is taken from
.Ar foo.ex2
and the ensemble is read from
.Ar foo.trees .
.Pp
For
.Ar avatar
format data, if the value of the
.Fl -filestem
argument is
.Ar bar
then
.Ar bar.names
is used for the class and attribute definition file,
.Ar bar.test
is used for the testing data.
The ensemble is read from
.Ar bar.trees .
.Pp
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Pp
.Dl proximity -o avatar -f autos --truth-column=3 --exclude=1-2
.Pp
Writes
.Ar autos.proximity
which is a duplicate of the input datafile with an additional column
containing the outlier measure for each sample.
.Pp
.Dl proximity -o avatar -f autos --truth-column=3 --exclude=1-2 --sort=50
.Pp
Writes
.Ar autos.proximity
which is a dupplicate of the input datafile with two additional columns
containing the outlier measure and the proximity to sample number 50. The
data is sorted on the proximity value.
.Sh FILES
.Pp
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Pp
.Xr avatardt 1,
.Xr crossvalfc 1
.Pp
.Sh HISTORY
.Pp
